“President said, and there in May, we saw first time how 48-degree Celsius would be there and outside temperature, then midday, we conducted the task and that made India nuclear weapon state. And that also gave me another type of happiness. Then I said, okay, these are all some different, some space. I said, we prepare for the nation, I prepare for the nation, India 2020 mission. How by the year 2020 India can be economically developed nation? We give a blueprint, a roadmap in 1998 with a complete area specified and what should be done.

And this book, finally, a book also come, India 2020, this famous book and all these things. Another war, and including parliament discussed, and politically they accepted those days. So, all these things happened. But she was nothing impressed, my student. You know student, when you are taking class, you will know. She said, I didn’t ask all these things. But you give me one thing which gave you bliss [inaudible], you know, equal [inaudible].

Now, finally I told her, see when I was in DRDL Hyderabad, I was working as a director of the establishment, and also me specialising in composite material, how to make a composite material. The Agni missile, the introduction I gave for Agni, carrying what is called a heat shield. Because when it re-enters with 15 times the sound speed, re-entry time before 2000 kilometres it goes, the temperature outside will be normally 4,500-degree Kelvin. It’ll be burning. It’s a flame. That mean inside the nose cone, inside the heat shield, the material what you carry, it may be any important material. And that should be in temperature, the room temperature what you are having. This is the requirement.

So, we developed a material what’s called Carbon-Carbon material. You know, carbon composite, this Carbon-Carbon material, we developed it. Now the tip we have put in this follow, so that whenever temperature, very high temperature, flame comes in, this will protect it. The inside will be always 25, 28-degree Celsius. So, this very light material we used. So, this is called heat shield for Agni.

One day, an orthopaedical, Professor BN Prasad at that time was in Nizam Institute of Medical Science. He’s an orthopaedic surgeon, orthopaedic surgeon. One day he was visiting me. Orthopaedic surgeon was visiting my lab. I showed him the precious thing, the heat shield. He lifted it, he found it is very light. Very light, very light. He was always saying very light.

And then, and heavy strength also. You see, very high temperature, strength also very low. So, strength will be kept always. So, all these things, he was highly impressed. He said, Kalam, I want to take you to my orthopaedic ward in Nizam Institute of Medical Science. So, he put me in his car, and took me to the hospital. And took me to the orthopaedic ward where 30, 40 people who were having knee surgery. And there were 15 young boys and girls, they had the caliper fitted....
